[rock music]
♪ ♪
[woman singing in Japanese]
>> Ron: IN A SPINNING BODY,
THE AXIS OF THAT BODY’S
ROTATION WILL ALWAYS POINT IN
THE SAME DIRECTION, EVEN WHEN
FORCE IS APPLIED TO IT.
THE SO‐CALLED GYROSCOPIC EFFECT,
ONE OF THE FUNDAMENTAL LAWS OF
THE UNIVERSE.
IT’S SO STRANGE.
UNTIL SEVEN YEARS AGO, I WAS A
HEREDITARY GUARD OF
THE LITTNER ARMORY.
I WAS A MAN WHO COULD BARELY
READ OR WRITE HIS NAME, AND NOW
I CAN FINE‐TUNE A GIGANTIC
BATTLESHIP LIKE THIS.
ONCE IN A WHILE, I FRIGHTEN
MYSELF.
IS THIS JUST SPIRAL POWER
AWAKENING?
>> Tetsukan: WHAT’RE YOU DOING
IN THERE TALKING TO YOURSELF?!
IF WE DON’T DO SOMETHING,
THIS SHIP WILL BE DESTROYED!
>> Ron: WE’VE ALREADY DONE
EVERYTHING WE CAN.
[Tetsukan sighs]
THAT’S RIGHT.
THE FASTER WE SPIN, THE MORE WE
BREAK FREE OF THE BONDS
OF GRAVITY...
AIM FOR THE HEAVENS.
AND THERE IT IS!
NOW SHOW US WHAT LIES BEYOND
THOSE HEAVENS WE’VE AIMED FOR!
>> Simon: WE EMBARK ON THE
WINDING SPIRAL PATH.
THE PATHS OF MAN AND
BEAST INTERSECT!
>> Viral: JOIN WITH
YESTERDAY’S FOE TO SMASH FATE
AND GRAB TOMORROW’S PATH
WITH OUR OWN HANDS!
>> Simon and Viral: DESTINY
COMBINING...
GURREN LAGANN!
JUST WHO THE HELL DO YOU THINK
I AM?!
>> Gimmy: OH, WOW, THAT
SHOCK WAVE JUST NOW DESTROYED
OVER HALF THE SMALL MUGANN.
>> Cybela: WAIT. THAT’S A...
THERE’S A MASSIVE ENERGY BUILDUP
ON THE LUNAR SURFACE BEHIND
THE MUGANN!
>> Simon: WHAT THE HELL?
>> Cybela: GIANT BEAM PLATFORM
DETECTED ON SURFACE!
>> Ron: IS ITS TARGET
GURREN LAGANN?
>> Kittan: SIMON!
LEAVE THE ARC‐GURREN TO US.
YOU GO AND DEAL WITH THE MOON.
GOT IT?!
>> Simon: GOT IT!
>> Kittan: LET’S GO, YOU BOZOS!
>> all: YEAH!
[battle cry]
>> YEAH!
>> Darry: WOW, LOOK HOW MANY
THEY DESTROYED IN THEIR
FIRST BATTLE IN SPACE!
>> Gimmy: THE SMALL MUGANN
ARE ALL WIPED OUT.
>> Dayakka: SIMON, KITTAN,
JORGUN, BALINBOW!
I KNEW IT.
YOU GUYS CAME.
>> Kiyoh: GOOD NEWS, ISN’T IT?
>> Kiyal: AWESOME, YOU MEAN.
>> Dayakka: YEAH.
[gasps]
IT’S MY DAYAKKAISER!
WHO THE HELL IS IN IT?!
>> Yoko: GIMMY!
PAY ATTENTION!
>> Gimmy: Y‐YOKO?
>> Yoko: ANY MORE DAYDREAMING,
AND YOU’LL BE STANDING
IN THE CORNER!
>> Darry: YOU SOUND JUST LIKE
A TEACHER.
>> Gimmy: REMAINING GRAPEARL
UNITS, FORM UP NOW!
DON’T LET THE OLD‐TIMERS
SHOW US UP!
>> Kinon: SPIRAL POWER IS
STARTING TO RECOVER!
>> Rossiu: IS IT BECAUSE
OF THEM?
IS IT THE POWER OF HOPE?
IF THAT’S TRUE, THEN WHAT HAVE
I BEEN DOING ALL THIS TIME?
DIVERT ALL ENERGY TO
SPIRAL SHIELDS!
YOU ARE TO PROTECT THE SHIP
AT ALL COSTS!
>> Kinon: ROGER!
>> Simon: VIRAL, WE’RE GONNA
GO DESTROY THAT CANNON
BEFORE IT GETS OFF ANOTHER SHOT.
>> Viral: YOU’RE GIVING ME
ORDERS NOW?
>> Simon: BUT IT’S NOT AN ORDER.
IT’S A SUGGESTION.
>> Viral: IN THAT CASE,
I ACCEPT!
>> Simon and Viral:
DOUBLE BOOMERANG SPIRAL!
>> Viral: WHAT THE...
>> Simon: YOU LITTLE...
[Simon yelling]
>> Lordgenome: THE MOON.
GO TO THE MOON.
THE MOON IS...IT IS MY...
>> Guinble: WHAT WAS THAT?
>> Rossiu: I THOUGHT HE MIGHT
BE ACCESSING NEW INFORMATION.
THEN AGAIN MAYBE HE’S SOMEHOW
ABLE TO RECALL SOME OF HIS
OLD MEMORIES AND...
>> Lordgenome: GO TO THE MOON...
>> Cybela: I’M GETTING MASSIVE
ENERGY READINGS COMING FROM THE
TWO GIANT MUGANN!
[gasps]
[Lordgenome yelling]
[clunk]
>> Rossiu: LORDGENOME!
>> Ron: THIS TIME, THEY’RE
FOCUSING ON US!
IT’S NOT EASY BEING POPULAR.
>> Simon: ARC‐GURREN,
WE’RE COMING!
DAMN IT!
[Simon and Viral screaming]
[Anne wailing]
[clamoring]
>> Kiyoh: THERE, THERE.
DON’T BE AFRAID NOW.
YOU’LL BE OKAY.
>> Dayakka: STAY CALM, PEOPLE!
IT’LL TAKE MORE THAN THAT TO
DESTROY US!
MY TEAM WILL KEEP US ALL SAFE.
>> Rossiu: THE ARC‐GURREN
CAN’T TAKE MUCH MORE OF THIS.
>> Simon: ROSSIU, DON’T GIVE
UP NOW!
WE’VE ALWAYS HELD OUT UNTIL THE
VERY LAST SECOND.
IT’S JUST LIKE WHEN WE STOLE
DAI‐GURREN AND WHEN WE
TOOK TEPPELIN!
WE SNATCHED VICTORY RIGHT FROM
THE JAWS OF DEFEAT!
>> Rossiu: I SUPPOSE IT WAS
ALWAYS LIKE THAT FOR YOU.
>> Ron: NOW, NOW, THERE.
NONE OF THAT WHINING.
>> Rossiu: LEERON, WHAT
ARE YOU...
>> Ron: JUST THINK
ABOUT IT, ROSSIU.
COME ON. DON’T YOU REMEMBER?
THE ARC‐GURREN IS ACTUALLY
A GIANT GUNMEN, JUST LIKE
TEPPELIN WAS!
[Simon and Viral screaming]
>> Simon: THAT’S RIGHT!
WE SNATCH VICTORY FROM DEFEAT!
AND THAT’S WHAT WE’LL KEEP
DOING, AS LONG AS IT TAKES!
>> Viral: I SWEAR, IT’S NEVER
A DULL MOMENT WITH YOU AROUND!
[both yelling]
>> Simon: ARC‐GURREN!
LET’S DO IT!
>> Darry: SIMON?
>> Gimmy: WHAT, HE’S GONNA RAM
THEM?
>> Kittan: HEY, MOVE IT!
MOVE IT! MOVE IT!
CLEAR A PATH!
>> Rossiu: WAIT. THAT’S‐‐
WE’VE COMBINED WITH
GURREN LAGANN?!
>> Kinon: WE’VE GOT A MASSIVE
INFLUX OF SPIRAL ENERGY!
>> Tetsukan: THE SIGNAL WE’RE
RECEIVING IS FOR TRANSFORMATION!
>> Ron: ADJUSTING GRAVITY
FOR TRANSFORMATION!
>> Tetsukan: SECURING ALL LIVING
QUARTERS!
>> Ron: OKAY, IT’S ALL YOURS.
HIT IT, SIMON!
>> Simon: GIGA DRILL, SPIN ON!
SMASHING THROUGH BOTH KARMA
AND FATE!
>> Viral: THE SCREAMS OF LIFE
ECHO ACROSS THE GALAXY!
>> Simon and Viral:
RAGING WAVE COMBINING!
ARC‐GURREN LAGANN!
[both yelling]
[rock music playing]
♪ ♪
>> Rossiu: BUT THAT’S...
HOW COULD IT‐‐
>> Kittan: WHAT THE HELL
IS THAT?
>> Darry: THEY TRANSFORMED
SOMETHING THAT BIG?
>> Simon: GOOD JOB, LEERON.
WE CAN ALWAYS COUNT ON YOU.
>> Ron: I DON’T WANT JUST YOUR
WORDS OF PRAISE!
I WANT YOUR BURNING HEART, TOO!
>> Viral: CAN I KILL HIM?
>> Simon: JUST LET IT GO.
WE NEED TO GET STARTED.
GUESS THEY CAN COMBINE,
TOO, HUH?
COME ON!
>> Simon: ARC‐GURREN LAGANN,
FULL POWER!
>> Simon: ALL RIGHT, VIRAL!
LET’S DO IT!
>> Viral: THAT SUITS ME
JUST FINE!
>> Simon: HAVE A TASTE OF THE
SPACE‐TIME SHATTERING...
>> Viral: ...BURST SPINNING...
>> Simon and Viral: PUNCH!
>> Gimmy: WAS THAT SIMON’S
POWER WE JUST SAW?
>> Yoko: YEP.
HE ALWAYS UNLEASHES UNBELIEVABLE
POWER AT THE LAST MOMENT.
>> Gimmy: YOU CAN SAY THAT
AGAIN.
>> Rossiu: WAIT A MINUTE.
WHAT IS THAT?
>> Ron: LOOKS LIKE A HOLE IN THE
FABRIC OF SPACE‐TIME.
HE FLUNG IT TO THE FAR END OF
THE SPACE‐TIME CONTINUUM.
>> Kinon: AMAZING.
>> Ron: THIS IS IT.
THIS MUST BE THE AWAKENING OF
SPIRAL POWER!
>> Simon: RIGHT.
NOW, THEN...
WE GOTTA PUSH THIS THING BACK
INTO PLACE!
♪ ROW, ROW, FIGHT THE POWER ♪ ♪
[wind blowing]
[explosions continue]
[debris clattering]
[wind blowing]
>> Kittan: IT’S GETTING HOT
IN HERE.
>> Ron: IT’LL BE ENTERING THE
ATMOSPHERE VERY SOON.
IT’S DANGEROUS, SO RETURN TO
THE SHIP.
>> Kittan: WHAT?
BUT WE HAVEN’T‐‐
>> Simon: LET ARC‐GURREN LAGANN
TAKE IT FROM HERE.
>> Cybela: LOOK!
>> Rossiu: THE MOON WAS
ANOTHER GIGANTIC MACHINE?
>> Simon: EITHER WAY, WE’RE
GONNA STOP IT NOW!
>> Lordgenome: AH, YES,
THAT IS MY FLAGSHIP THERE.
>> Tetsukan: THE BIOCOMPUTER
HAS BEEN REACTIVATED!
>> Rossiu: SO YOU’RE BACK
WITH US, LORDGENOME?
>> Simon and Viral: LORDGENOME?
>> Ron: DON’T WORRY, MY SWEETS.
ITS JUST A BIOCOMPUTER THAT WE
GENERATED FROM HIS
NERVOUS SYSTEM.
I MEAN, IT’S NOT LIKE WE
COMPLETELY BROUGHT HIM BACK TO
LIFE.
>> Viral: DISGUSTING.
>> Rossiu: IT WAS NECESSARY.
>> Lordgenome: IS THAT YOU
I HEAR, VIRAL?
TRY NOT TO BE ANGRY.
I MUST SAY, THIS IS NOT A BAD
EXPERIENCE.
>> Viral: IT SEEMS AS THOUGH
YOU’VE CHANGED, SPIRAL KING.
>> Lordgenome: YOU THINK SO?
PERHAPS I HAVE.
MAYBE I’VE CHANGED BECAUSE I’VE
BEEN SET FREE FROM THE
BURDEN OF MY FLESH.
>> Cybela: [gasps] ATMOSPHERIC
ENTRY IN FIVE MINUTES!
>> Ron: IT’S JUST TOO DARN BIG!
MAYBE IT REALLY IS HOPELESS.
>> Simon: I WON’T GIVE UP,
NOT AFTER COMING THIS FAR!
WHAT’S THIS?
>> Lordgenome: INSERT
YOUR SPIRAL POWER SOURCE HERE.
THE MOON WILL COME UNDER YOUR
CONTROL.
>> Simon: UNDER MY CONTROL?
>> Lordgenome: THE MOON IS MY
FLAGSHIP, THE CATHEDRAL TERRA.
>> Simon: SO THE MOON IS
ANOTHER GUNMEN?
>> Ron: FROM THE SIZE OF THE
HOLE, I’D SAY IT’LL TAKE
A GIGA CORE DRILL.
>> Simon: MEANING I SHOULD FLY
IN WITH GURREN LAGANN.
GIMMY, DARRY...
TAKE OVER THE CONTROLS!
>> Gimmy and Darry: RIGHT!
>> Darry: LET’S GIVE IT ALL
WE’VE GOT.
WE HAVE TO BUY SIMON AS MUCH
TIME AS WE CAN.
>> Gimmy: NOW HANG IN THERE,
GRAPEARL!
MASS‐PRODUCTION MODELS HAVE
TO SHOW THEIR PRIDE, TOO!
>> Cybela: THREE MINUTES TO
ATMOSPHERIC ENTRY!
>> Rossiu: GIMMY AND DARRY,
DID YOU TWO HEAR THAT?
DO WHAT YOU CAN TO GIVE US
SOME EXTRA TIME.
AND THEN JUST A MINUTE BEFORE
ENTRY, ARC‐GURREN LAGANN WILL
DISENGAGE AND RETREAT.
[group gasps]
I WILL PROTECT THE LIVES OF THE
180,000 PEOPLE ABOARD THIS SHIP.
NO MATTER HOW MUCH YOU
SCORN ME.
THIS WILL BE MY FINAL DUTY.
>> Gimmy and Darry: ROGER.
>> Simon: THE HEART OF
THE MACHINE.
>> Viral: WE’RE ALMOST OUT OF
TIME! GO!
[both yelling]
>> Simon: NIA!
GET OUT OF THE WAY, NIA!
>> Nia: NO, I CANNOT DO THAT.
I AM THE MESSENGER OF THE
ANTI‐SPIRAL RACE.
CAUSING THE ERADICATION
OF SPIRAL LIFE‐FORMS LIKE YOU
IS MY ONLY MISSION.
>> Simon: SPARE ME THE SPEECHES
AND MOVE!
>> Nia: YOUR ALTERNATIVE IS TO
INSERT THAT CORE DRILL, CRUSHING
ME IN THE PROCESS.
>> Viral: IF THAT’S THE
WAY YOU WANT IT!
>> Ron: HOLD ON, VIRAL!
LORDGENOME SAYS NOT TO!
>> Viral: HE WHAT?
>> Lordgenome: HER ENTIRE BODY
IS COMPOSED OF THE SAME ENERGY
BLOCKS AS THE MUGANN.
IF YOU CRUSH HER, THE END RESULT
WILL BE A MASSIVE EXPLOSION, AND
THE CONTROL SYSTEM WILL BE
DESTROYED.
>> Viral: BUT WE’RE...
BUT WE’RE SO CLOSE...
>> Nia: THAT IS ABSOLUTE
DESPAIR.
>> Simon: WHAT?
>> Nia: THE SURVIVAL INSTINCT IS
INCREDIBLY STRONG IN YOU SPIRAL
RACES.
THAT IS WHY WE EXTINGUISH EVERY
RAY OF HOPE YOU HAVE.
WHEN HOPE APPEARS TO BE AT HAND,
BUT THEN YOU FIND IT BEYOND YOUR
REACH, THAT IS WHEN YOUR
DESPAIR BECOMES DEEPEST.
>> Rossiu: THE APPEARANCE OF
THE MUGANN,
THE FALLING OF THE MOON,
THE PREDICTED DESTRUCTION
OF THE SHELTERS,
THE AMBUSH IN SPACE...
IS SHE SAYING THESE
WERE ALL CALCULATED MOVES?
HOW FAR DOES THIS ALL GO?
>> Nia: TERROR AND DESPAIR ARE
THE MOST POWERFUL DETERRENTS FOR
THE MAGNIFYING NATURE
OF SPIRAL POWER.
>> Simon: YOU SURE ABOUT THAT?
LOOK, NIA, THE WAY I SEE IT,
YOU’VE ACTUALLY BEEN TRYING
TO TOUGHEN UP HUMANITY THIS
WHOLE TIME.
NO MATTER HOW DIRE THE
SITUATION, WE’VE ALWAYS RISEN
TO MEET THE CHALLENGE.
THE MORE DANGEROUS THE
CIRCUMSTANCES YOU’VE PUT US IN,
THE STRONGER WE’VE BECOME.
THAT’S WHAT’S BROUGHT ME TO
THIS PLACE.
AND THAT’S WHAT YOU HOPED TOO.
TELL ME I’M WRONG.
>> Nia: YOU AND I EXIST IN
DIFFERENT DIMENSIONS.
MY PAST WAS A FICTIONAL
CREATION.
YOUR WORDS ARE COMPLETELY
MEANINGLESS TO ME.
>> Simon: YOU’RE WRONG, NIA.
>> Nia: IT IS A SIMPLE FACT.
>> Simon: IF THAT’S TRUE...
IF THAT’S REALLY TRUE, WHY ARE
YOU WEARING THAT RING?
>> Nia: I DON’T...
>> Simon: IT’S YOUR DESIRE,
YOUR DESIRE TO NOT LET GO OF
THE PAST.
THAT’S IT.
I FINALLY GET IT NOW.
I FINALLY UNDERSTAND WHY YOU
APPEARED TO ME AT SUCH A CRUCIAL
TIME IN THIS ORDEAL.
>> Nia: TO INFLICT ABSOLUTE
DESPAIR.
I THOUGHT I JUST TOLD YOU THAT.
>> Simon: YOU’RE WRONG.
MAYBE YOU DON’T REALIZE IT
YOURSELF, BUT WHEN YOU APPEARED
TO ME THAT TIME, YOU WANTED ME
TO HELP YOU.
>> Nia: SIMON!
I’M RIGHT HERE!
PLEASE!
HELP ME!
YOU’RE WRONG.
I WAS‐‐
>> Simon: WHEN WE DEFEATED
LORDGENOME, YOU SAID YOU WOULD
HEAD TOWARDS TOMORROW.
YOU AND I BUILT THAT FUTURE
ALONG WITH THE PEOPLE WHO CAME
TO THE SURFACE.
WOULD YOU DESTROY THAT YOURSELF?
I’M GONNA GRAB HOLD OF YOUR
FUTURE WITH MY OWN TWO HANDS!
SO JUST GET OUT OF THE WAY!
PLEASE, NIA!
>> Viral: LOOK, SIMON!
>> Cybela: THE MOON IS
TRANSFORMING!
IT’S...
IT’S A BATTLESHIP TYPE!
>> Lordgenome: YES.
THAT IS MY CATHEDRAL TERRA.
>> Ron: I GUESS THAT MEANS
HE TOOK CONTROL OF IT.
>> Cybela: THE BATTLESHIP
HAS FIRED ITS RETROS!
IT’S SLOWLY CLIMBING BACK INTO
ITS OLD ORBIT.
[all exhaling]
>> Ron: WELL, HE PULLED
ANOTHER VICTORY OUT OF HIS HAT.
[Rossiu grunts]
[murmuring, laughing]
>> Kittan: YEAH, THAT’S SIMON
FOR YA!
>> Yoko: YOU SAID IT.
HE’S QUITE A MAN, ISN’T HE?
>> Simon: THANK YOU, NIA.
THANK YOU.
>> Nia: BUT THIS WON’T CHANGE
YOUR FATE.
>> Simon: WHAT?
>> Nia: NOW THAT THE HUMANITY
ANNIHILATION SYSTEM HAS BEEN
DEACTIVATED, THE ANTI‐SPIRALS
WILL MOVE THEMSELVES INTO
A TOTAL WAR FOOTING.
IF THEY SET THEIR MINDS TO IT,
NOT EVEN YOU WILL BE A MATCH
FOR THEM.
THE ANTI‐SPIRAL FLEET WILL
ARRIVE IN THIS GALAXY TO
EXTERMINATE THE HUMAN RACE AND
THEIR AWAKENED SPIRAL POWER.
>> Viral: SO THEN THE FIGHT
ISN’T OVER JUST YET.
>> Simon: NIA, IF WE WIN,
WILL YOU GO BACK TO BEING
YOUR OLD SELF?
>> Nia: I WILL BE RECALLED
TO THE ANTI‐SPIRAL HOME WORLD
SO THAT THE DATA I GATHERED
ON YOU CAN BE ANALYZED.
THE LIKELIHOOD OF MY RETURN IS
VERY CLOSE TO ZERO.
>> Simon: MAYBE, BUT IT
ISN’T ZERO.
AND FOR ME, THAT MAKES IT THE
SAME AS A 100% CHANCE.
>> Nia: SO YOU WILL COME TO
GET ME, SIMON?
>> Simon: YEAH.
WHO THE HELL DO YOU THINK I AM?
>> Nia: IT’S HAPPENING.
I’M BEING RECALLED TO THE
ANTI‐SPIRAL HOME WORLD.
>> Simon: NIA!
[laughter, chatter]
>> Rossiu: I CAN’T HOLD
A CANDLE TO HIM.
IN THE END, HE OVERTURNED EVERY
PLAN SET AGAINST HIM.
>> announcer: THE LUNAR
IMPACT HAS BEEN AVERTED.
THE SHIP WILL RETURN TO THE
EARTH’S SURFACE MOMENTARILY.
>> Dayakka: WE CAN GO HOME.
>> Simon: WAIT FOR ME, NIA.
[man singing in Japanese]
♪ ♪
>> Simon: EVEN TWISTED ROADS
SNAP INTO PLACE IF YOU KICK
REASON OUT AND GIVE ’EM A WHACK!
SPIRIT AND LOVE CHANGE
THE UNIVERSE!
THAT’S HOW MANLY STUBBORNNESS
SHOWS ITSELF!
NEXT TIME ON GURREN LAGANN,
LET’S GO,
THIS IS THE FINAL BATTLE.